Adding a ckETH page (#2568)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/integrations/ethereum/cketh.mdx

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";

# Chain-key Ethereum (ckETH)

## Overview

Chain-key Ethereum (ckETH) is an
[ICRC-2](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC-1/blob/main/standards/ICRC-2/README.md)-compliant
token that is backed 1:1 by ETH.

The ckETH functionality is provided through an interplay of a suite of canisters on ICP, and a
helper contract on Ethereum:

> | Canister/Contract                                                                                   | Ethereum Mainnet                                                                                                                                                                    | Sepolia Testnet                                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Canister / contract                                                                                   | Ethereum mainnet                                                                                                                                                                    | Sepolia testnet                                                                                                                                                                     |
```

| [Helper]([https://github.com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/cketh/minter/ERC20DepositHelper.sol) | [0x7574eB42cA208A4f6960ECCAfDF186D627dCC175](https://etherscan.io/address/0x7574eB42cA208A4f6960ECCAfDF186D627dCC175](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/cketh/minter/EthDepositHelper.sol))                                                               | [0xb44B5e756A894775FC32EDdf3314Bb1B1944dC34](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0xb44B5e756A894775FC32EDdf3314Bb1B1944dC34)                                                       |

The **ckETH minter** is responsible for the minting and burning of ckETH tokens.
It uses the following workflow:

- Tokens are minted when a user calls the `deposit` function of the helper
  contract on Ethereum with some ETH attached. The deposit function takes the
  receiver's principal as an argument and emits a `ReceivedEth` event with the
  `sender`, `value`, and `receiver` as payload.
- The ckETH minter listens to the `ReceivedEth` event by periodically fetching
  logs from multiple Ethereum JSON RPC cloud providers and mints the
  corresponding amount of ckETH to the receiver's account on the ckETH ledger.

> - Users can withdraw by creating an ICRC-2 approval on the ledger and calling `withdraw_eth` with a receiver ETH address as an argument on the minter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users can withdraw ckETH by creating an ICRC-2 approval on the ledger and calling `withdraw_eth` with a receiver ETH address as an argument on the minter.
```

> - Users can withdraw by creating an ICRC-2 approval on the ledger and calling `withdraw_eth` with a receiver ETH address as an argument on the minter.

Reviewer: Should we add a link to info on ICRC-2?

> - The minter will then burn the ckETH on the ledger and create an Ethereum transaction and submit it to the Ethereum network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The minter will then burn the ckETH on the ledger and create an Ethereum transaction that is submitted it to the Ethereum network.
```

Author: Why do you want to have the 2nd part of the sentence passive when the first part is active?

> The **ckETH ledger** and **ckETH index** canisters are regular ICRC-1 compliant canisters. A guide on how to interact with these canisters can be found in the [Interacting with an ICRC-1 ledger](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/icrc-1/interact-with-ICRC-1-ledger) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **ckETH ledger** and **ckETH index** canisters are regular ICRC-1 compliant canisters. A guide on how to interact with these canisters can be found in the [interacting with an ICRC-1 ledger](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/icrc-1/interact-with-ICRC-1-ledger) section.
```

## Minting ckETH

A simplified overview of the process to mint ckETH from ETH is as follows:

<div class="text--center">
  <img
    src={useBaseUrl("/img/docs/cketh-mint.png")}
    alt="Minting ckETH"
    width="500"
  />
</div>

## Withdrawing ETH

A simplified overview of the process to witthdraw ETH from ckETH is as follows:

<div class="text--center">
  <img
    src={useBaseUrl("/img/docs/cketh-withdraw.png")}
    alt="Withdrawing ETH"
    width="500"
  />
</div>

## Integrating ckETH into a project

For integrating ckETH into a dapp, you can follow the [generic instructions for ICRC-1 tokens](/docs/developer-docs/integrations/icrc-1/index.md).

> The `canisters` section in a `dfx.json` file of a project integrating with ckETH will look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate with ckETH, the configuration of a project in the `dfx.json` file will include the following `canisters` section:
```
